# lolesports-data-scraper
The goal of this project is to create an easily-implementable Fantasy LCS game and stat tracking system, in lieu of an official Fantasy LCS league.
Fantasy LCS is a game inspired by such other fantasy sports games as fantasy baseball and fantasy football, in which fantasy players create fantasy teams of real sports players and calculate their statistics from real games to determine which fantasy team has the best roster of real players. Fantasy LCS applies this popular fantasy concept to professional League of Legends, one of the most popular "esports" (competitive video games) in the world.
This program, when given a list of fantasy players and the members of their fantasy team (a real team and 7 real players), scrapes the commonly-used and regularly updated Leaguepedia wiki (lol.gamepedia.com) to determine the statistics of the real team and players, then calculates their resulting fantasy scores and returns the results in a formatted spreadsheet.
Currently, the program can be used by running fantasy_lcs_main.py using python. Running this file as main will generate text prompts which can be used to customise input and output.
The program requires a specially formatted csv containing fantasy team details as input, and will output the results to a specially-formated xlsx file with a name specified by user input.

This program was developed for use in Python 3.8.1, and requires packages that can be installed using pip. All necessary packages and their required versions can be found in the requirements.txt file.

The .idea folder in this repository contains setting information specific to the PyCharm IDE, where this project was created. AS FAR AS I KNOW, its presence should not affect the program, which should be runnable by any Python compiler or environment (assuming necessary packages are installed).

CURRENTLY-KNOWN ISSUES/LIMITATIONS
The program does not allow the user to access stats from outside the 2019 and 2020 seasons. (Of course, attempting to access stats from seasons and weeks that have not yet occurred will result in an error.)
When considering the input csv, player names are case-sensitive: as such, all characters in the name must match the player's corresponding designation in the Leaguepedia wiki for their stats to be found and calculated. In addition, only certain colors are currently supported as entries in the color field; eventually, better support for output color customization is planned.

The input csv should take the following format (including a row with column labels): Name, Color, Team, Top, Jungle, Mid, Bot, Sup, Sub1, Sub2
Each row corresponds to a player playing the game: Their username, their respective color on the output spreadsheet, the professional team for which stats will be calculated, and all the pro players on their team, for which stats will be calculated. This team is composed of one player for each position (Top, Jungle, Mid, Bot, Sup) as well as 2 subs that can be from any position. If a sub outperforms the starter at a given position, they will automatically be substituted in as starter in the final spreadsheet. All statistics are determined on a week-by-week basis. If a player is placed in a position where they did not play that week, their stats will be calculated and they will be placed in the position they did play that week. However, the game does not adequately support an absence of a starting player in such a scenario, and as such the game will not work unless the players in starting positions did play the roles in which they were placed that weekend (otherwise, an error will be thrown).
